---
title: "Intro: A is for Anxiety"
subtitle: How I started with Muay Thai
date: 2023-02-11
bigimg: [{src: "/img/posts/01.jpg"}]
---

Back then, I wasn’t necessarily aiming to learn Muay Thai, or Thai boxing, but Krav Maga. Before Krav Maga, I was fascinated by Karate for a while, and before that – I must have been 11 or 12 years old – I tried an Aikido trial lesson with my best friend at the time. I quickly realized that Aikido had little in common with "real" martial arts; it was more of a passive art and philosophy in itself, which left me feeling unfulfilled. If we go back another year or two, I found myself on a judo mat after being persuaded by another friend, but this style didn't resonate with me either: I still remember how dizzy I would get doing somersaults during the warm-up, and how uncomfortable it felt to wrestle rather than exchange cool punches or kicks like I sometimes saw on TV.

In short, I mentally wrote off martial arts for myself. What business did I have there, anyway? I was a skinny, shy, stuttering kid without much strength, always avoiding conflicts. Yet, a certain fascination for the subject remained, especially when I hit puberty and some of my classmates started teasing me. My stuttering made me an easy target, and advice like "Just ignore them, they'll get bored" did little to help. During that phase, I often imagined myself beating them all up as an unbeatable fighter, earning respect across the schoolyard, though outwardly, I showed nothing. Luckily for me, a new student joined our class, and he became an even easier target – I was largely left alone after that.

But instead of standing up for the new kid and defending him, I stayed out of it and remained silent. I did what I always did: avoided conflict. That’s how I spent most of my young life.

About ten years later, I found myself in a big city. I was in my mid-20s, earning my own money, and had given up many of my former hobbies: inline skating, creative writing, reading, hiking – just to name a few. Instead, I spent most of my time sitting in my apartment in front of the computer, aimlessly surfing the internet or playing video games. My life had become almost entirely virtual, and I had few social contacts. At the same time, images of what my life would be like as a martial artist started resurfacing in my mind. I felt the same strange fascination I had as a teenager, only this time, as a young adult, I was hoping for something different. Sure, I was still drawn to the idea of actually being able to defend myself if it came to it and being fit when necessary. But mostly, I longed for a mental shift. My daily life was so dull. Everything ran its usual course, and I was simply bored because there were no real challenges in my life. How could there be? I avoided them constantly and ensured that nothing changed. Stagnation was the word, and I was tired of it.

With every movie and series featuring martial arts as a central theme, I felt more compelled to try it again. The final push came from a documentary called "Fight World," in which actor Frank Grillo travels around the world, learning about various martial arts and their histories. The first episode of the series was about Muay Thai.

"Fascination" doesn’t even begin to describe what I felt, but at the same time, old doubts crept in: What was I doing there? I was still a skinny young man who no longer stuttered much but still lacked strength and remained conflict-averse. I didn’t belong there, among those muscular, brutal guys who would probably laugh me off anyway.

It would be a few more years before I finally mustered the courage. With a friend, I signed up for my first Muay Thai session in early 2022. The training was tough, my body covered in bruises, and I was as happy as I hadn’t been in a long time. This was it, exactly this: I felt alive. All my doubts had been completely unfounded, especially regarding the social aspect. The gym was a mixed group of men and women of all ages and weight classes. What united us, however, was mutual respect. I felt comfortable in this environment and signed the membership contract right after the trial session.

Today, about a year later, I’ve made a few friends there and truly feel like I belong. But most importantly, I’ve found the kind of challenge in Muay Thai that I had been longing for: It’s not primarily about being better than my opponent. What’s more important is being better than who I was yesterday. Every training session confronts me with the fear that held me back from putting on boxing gloves and stepping into the ring for the first time. Over this past year, I’ve learned a lot about myself, like the fact that I’m much stronger than I ever gave myself credit for – mentally as well as physically, both inside and outside the ring. I’ve also learned to stand up for myself and for the people close to me, and that I can’t always avoid conflicts.

They say you never stop learning, and I’m convinced of that. When I look back at the path I’ve traveled so far, I don’t feel fear anymore. Instead, there’s a whole new feeling: pride.